a hovel f 


iN cartoons d 
Jeff Kinney 
i. a a a i 








OTHER BOOKS BY JEFF KINNEY 
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules 
Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Last Straw 
Diary of a Wimpy Kid Do-It-Yourself Book 





— 
Zi 


GREG HEFFLEY’S JOURNAL 


by Jeff Kinney 


AMULET BOOKS 





PUBLISHER'S NOTE; This is a work of fiction. Names, charactors, places, and 
incidents are either the product of the author's imagination or are used fictitiously, 
and any resemblance to actual persons. living or dead, business establishments, 
events, or locales is entirely coincidental. 


Library of Congress Cataloging:in- Publication Data: 


Kinney. Jeff. 
Diary of a wimpy kid / Jeff Kinney. 


pom. 


Summary: Greg records his experiences in a middle school where he and his best 
friend, Rowley, undersized weaklings amid boys who need to shave twice daily, hope 
just to survive, but when Rowley grows more popular Greg must take drastic measures 
to save their friendship. 


ISBN 978-0-8109-9313-4 (paper over board) 


u Middle schools—Fietion. 2. Friendship—Fiction. & 
Scheols—Fiction. 4. Olaries—Fiction. §. Humorous stories.) |. Title. 


PZ7K6232Dia 2007 
[Fic]—deaz 
200603847 


Wimpy Kid text and illustrations copyright © 2007 Wimpy Kid, Inc. 
DIARY OF A WIMPY KID and Greg Heffley cover image 
are trademarks of Wimpy Kid, Inc 


Book design by Jeff Kinney 
Cover design by Chad W. Beckerman and Jaff Kinney 


Published in 2007 by Amulet Books, an imprint of Harry N, Abrams, Inc, 
All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrioval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, mechanical, elec- 
tronic, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written permission from 
the publisher. Amulet Books and Amulet Paperbacks are registered trademarks 
of Harry N. Abrams, Inc. 


Printed and bound in U.S.A. 
3) 30 29 28 27 2% 25 


Amulet Books are available at special discounts when purchased in quantity 
for premiums and promotions as well as fundraising or educational use, 
Special editions can also be cteated to specification. For details, contact 
specialmarkets@hnabooks.com or the address below. 


HNABE | 
harry n, abrams, inc. 
bety p u mersa Caspe 
15 West 18th Street 


New York, NY toon 
weewhnabooks.com 


TO MOM, DAD, RE, SCOTT, AND PATRICK 


SEPTEMBER 
a 
First of all, let me get something straight: This 
is a JOURNAL, not a diary. T know what it 
Says on the cover, but when Mom went out to 
buy this thing TL SPECIFICALLY told her to 
get one that didnt say “diary” on it. 


Great. AIl T need is for some jerk +o catch me 
ca ing this book around and get the wrong idea. 





— 


The other thing T want to clear vp right away 
is that this was MOM's idea, not mine. 


But if she thinks Tm going to write down my 
“feelings” in here or whatever, she's crazy. So 
just don't expect me to be all “Dear Diary’ this 
and “Dear Diary" that. 


The only reason T agreed +o do this at all is 
because T figure later on when I'm rich and 
famous, Tl have better things to do than 
answer peoples stupid questions all day long. So 
this book is gonna come in handy. 





; S 


Like T said, TII be famous one day, but for now 
Lim stuck in middle school with a bunch of morons. 


MORONS 


ae 





Let me just say for the record that T think 
middle school is the dumbest idea ever invented. 
You got kids like me who havent hit their 
growth spurt yet mixed in with these gorillas who 
need to shave twice a day. 





And then they wonder why bullying is such a big 
problem in middle school. 


Tf i+ was vp to me, grade levels would be based 
on height, not age. But then again, T guess 
that would mean kids like Chirag Gupta would 
still be in the first grade. 


Today is the first day of school, and right now 

were just warting around for the teacher to hu 
up and finish the seating chart. So T figured F 
might as well write in this book +o pass the time. 


7 the way, let me give you Some good advice. On 
e first ay of school, you get to be real careful 


where you sit. You walk into the classroom and just 
plunk our stuff down on any old desk and the 
next ing you know the teacher is Saying 






I HOPE YOU ALL LIKE 
WHERE YOU'RE SITTING, 





So in this class, T got stuck with Chris Hosey in 
front of me and Lionel James in back of me. 


4 


Jason Brill came in late and almost sat to m 
right, but luckily T stopped that from happening 
at the last second. 





Next period, T should Just sit in the middle of a 
bunch of hot girls as soon as T step in the 
room. But T guess if T do that, it just proves 
T didnt learn anything from last year. 





Man, I dont know WHAT is up with girls these 
days. T+ used to be a whole lot simpler back in 
elementary school. The deal was, if you were the 
fastest runner in your class, you got all the girls. 


And in the fifth grade, the fastest runner was 
Ronnie McCoy. 
9 o 9 o 


a MM 
apno È: 


Nowadays, it’s a whole lot more complicated. Now 
it's about the kind of clothes you wear or how 
rich you are or if you have a cute butt or whatever. 
And kids like Ronnie McCoy are scratching their 
heads wondering what the heck happened. 





The most popular boy in my grade is Bryce 

Anderson. The thing that really stinks is that 
T have ALWAYS been into girls, but kids like 
Bryce have only come around in the last couple 


of years. 


TL remember how Bryce used to act back in 


elementary school. 





But of course now I dont get any credit for 
sticking with the girls all this time. 


Like T said, Bryce is the most popular kid in our 
grade, so that leaves all the rest of us gys 
scrambling for the other spots. 


The best T can figure is that Lm somewhere 
around S2nd or 53rd most popular this year. 
But the good news is that I'm about to move 
up one spot because Charlie Davies is above me, 
and he's getting his braces next week. 





L ty to explain all this popularity stuff to my 
friend Rowley (who is probably hovering right 
around the 150 mark, by the way), but T think 
it just goes in one ear and out the other with him. 





We. nesqa 

Today we had Phys Ed, so the first thing T 
did when E got outside was sneak off +o +he 
basketball court to see if the Cheese was still 
there. And sure enough, it was. 


<> at 





That piece of Cheese has been sitting on the 
blacktop since last spring. L guess it must Ve 
dropped out of someones sandwich or something. 
After a couple of days, the Cheese started getting 
all moldy and j Nobody would play basketball on 
the court where Cheese was, even though that 
was the only court that had a hoop with a net. 


Then one day, this kid named Darren Walsh 
touched the Cheese with his finger, and that's 
what started this thing called the Cheese “Touch. 
T+'s basically like the Cooties. Tf you get the 
Cheese — youre stuck with it until you 
pass it on to someone else. 


— Se ae se 
Ug ea -= Iss 


The only way +o protect yourself from the 
Cheese “Touch is to cross your fingers. 


But it’s not that easy remembering to keep your 
fingers crossed every moment of the day. T ended 
up taping mine together so they'd stay crossed 
all the time. T got a D in —— but it 
was totally worth it. 


This one kid named Abe Hall get the Cheese 
Touch in April, and nobody would even come hear 
him for the rest of the year This summer Abe 
moved away to California and took the Cheese 
Touch with him. 


T just hope someone doesn + start the Cheese 
Touch up again, because T don'+ need that kind 


of stress in my life anymore. 


rsda 
Tim having a Seriously hard time getting used 
+o the fact that summer is over and TL have to 
get out of bed every morning to go to school. 


My summer did not exactly get off +o a great 
start, thanks +o my older brother Rodrick. 


10 


A couple of days into summer vacation, Rodrick 
woke me up in the middle of the hight. He told 
me LT slept through the whole summer, but that 
luckily T woke up just in time for the first 
day of school. 





You might think T was pretty dumb for falling 
for that one, but Rodrick was dressed up in his 
school clothes and he set my alarm clock ahead +o 
make it look like it was the morning. Plus, he 
closed my curtains so T couldn't see that i+ was 
still dak out. 


After Rodrick woke me up, T just got dressed and 


went downstairs to make myself some breakfast, 
like T do every morning oh a school day. 


11 


But T guess T must have made a pretty big 
racket because the next thing LT knew, Dad was 
downstairs, yelling at me for eating Cheerios at 
3:00 in the morning. 





T+ took me a minute to figure out what the heck 
was going on. 


After T did, I told Dad that Rodrick had 
played a trick on me, and HE was the one that 
should be getting yelled at. 


Dad walked down to the basement to chew 
Rodrick out, and T tagged along. T couldnt 
wait to see Rodrick get what was coming +o him. 


12 


But Rodrick covered up his tracks pretty good. 
And +o this day, Lim sure Dad thinks Tie 


got a screw loose or something. 





rida 


Today at school we got assigned to reading groups. 


They dont come right out and tell you if 

youre in the Gifted group or the * group, 
but you can figure it out right away by looking 
at de covers of the books they hand out. 





T was — disappointed to find ovt T got 
put in the Gifted group, because that just means 
a lot of extra work. 


When they did the screening at the end of last 
year, T did my best to make sure T get pet in 
the Easy group this year 


FRED PICKED UP 





Mom is real tight with our principal, so Til bet 
she stepped in and made sure T got put in the 
Gifted group again. 


Mom is always saying Tim a smart kid, but that 
T just dont “apply” myself, 


14 


But if theres one thing I learned from Rodrick, 
its to set people's expectations real low so you 
end up surprising them by practically doing 
nothing at all. 






RODRICK, I WANT YOUR 
DIRTY UNDERWEAR OFF 
THE KITCHEN TABLE 
BEFORE I GET HOME 


Actually, Tim kind of glad my plan to get put 
in the Easy group didnt work. 


T saw a couple of the "Bink Says Boo” kids 
holding their books upside down, and T dont 
think they were joking. 


Saturda 
Well, the first week of school is finally over, So 
today T slept in. 


Most kids wake up early on Saturday to watch 
cartoons or whatever, but not me. The only reason 
T get out of bed at all on weekends is because 
eventually, T cant stand the taste of my own 
breath anymore. 





16 


Unfortunately, Dad wakes up at 6:00 in the 
morning no matter WHAT day of the week it 
is, and he is not real considerate of the fact 
that T am trying to enjoy my Saturday like 


a normal person. 





T didnt have anything +o do today sol just 
headed up to Rowley's house. 


Rowley is technically my best friend, but that is 
definitely sub ject to change. 


Te been avoiding Rowley since the first day of 
school, when he did something that really 
annoyed me. 


We were getting our stuff from our lockers at 
the end of the day, and Rowley came up to me 


and said— 





WANT TO COME OVER 
TO MY HOUSE AND 


PLAAYYY? 





T have told Rowley at least a billion times that 
now that were in middle school, youre supposed 

to say “hang out,” not “pla .” But no matter 
how many nhoogies —F give him, he always forgets 
the next time. 


Tre been trying +o be a lot more careful about 


my image ever since T got to middle school. But 
having Rowley around is definitely not helping. 


18 


T met Rowley a few years ago when he moved 
into my neighborhood. 


His mom bought him this book called “How to 
Make Friends in New Places,” and he came to 
my house trying all these dumb gimmicks. 





T guess T kind of felt sorry for Rowley, and T 
decided to take him under my wing. 


T+'s been great having him around, mostly because 
T get to use all the tricks Rodrick pulls on ME. 


19 







DID YOU KNOW THAT IF YOUR HAND 
IS BIGGER THAN YOUR FACE ITS A 
SIGN OF "LOW INTELLIGENCE"? 


f T 





20 


Monga 

You know how T said T play all sorts of pranks 
on Rowley? Well, T have a litte brother named 
Manny, and T could NEVER get away with 
pulling any of that stuff on him. 


Mom and Dad protect Manny like he's a prince or 
something. And he never gets in trouble, even if 
he really deserves it. 


Yesterday, Manny drew a self-portrait on y 
bedroom door in permanent marker. T thoug + 
Mom and Dad were really going to let him have 
it, but as usual, + was wrong. 





21 


But the thing that bugs me the most about 
Manny is the nickname he has for me. When he 
was a baby, he couldn+ pronounce “brother,” 
so he started calling me “Bubby.” And he 
STILL calls me that now, even though T keep 
trying to get Mom and Dad to make him stop. 


Luckily none of my friends have found out yet, 
but believe me, TL have had some really close calls. 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GREG 





Mom makes me help Manny get ready for school in 
the morning. After T make Manny his breakfast, 
he carries his cereal bowl into the family room and 
sits on his plastic potty. 


"C" IS FOR COOKIE 
AND COOKIE IS 
FOR ME! 


Cm 


And when it's time for him to ge +o day care, he 
gets up and dumps whatever he didnt eat right in 
the toilet. 








Mom is always getting on me about not finishing 
my breakfast. But if she had to scrape corn 
flakes out of the bottom of a plastic potty 
every morning, she wouldn't have much of an 
appetite either. 


23 


vesda 
TL dont know if LT mentioned this before » but T 
am SUPER good at video games. T'I bet T 
could beat anyone in my grade head-to-head. 


Unfortunately, Dad does not exactly appreciate 
my skills. Hes always getting on me about going 
out and doing something “active.” 


So tonight after dinner when Dad started 
hassling me about going outside, I tried to 
explain how with video games, you can play sports 
like football and soccer, and you dont even get all 
hot and sweaty. 





But as usual, Dad didnt see my logic. 


24 


Dad is a pretty smart ay in general but when 
it comes to common sense, Sometimes T wonder 


about him. 





Lim sure Dad would dismantle my game s stem 
if he could figure out how to do it. But luckily, 
the people who make these things make them 
parent-proof. 


DAG NAB 
THESE FANCY 
GADGETS! 





Every time Dad kicks me out of the house to do 
something sporty, T just go up to Rowley’s and 
play my video games there. 


Unfortunately, the only games T can play at 
Rowley’s are car-racing games and stuff like that. 


Because whenever T bring a game up to Rowley's 
house, his dad looks i+ up on some parents’ Web 
site. And if my game has ANY kind of fighting 


or Violence in it, he wont let us play. 





Tm getting a little sick of playing Formula One 
Racing with Rowley, because hes not a serious 
gamer like me. All that you have to do to beat 
Rowley is name your car something ridiculous at 


the beginning of the game. 


26 


And then when you pass Rowley’s car, he just 
falls to pieces. 


= Goals 
aie 





way , after T got done mopping the floor 
ae Rowley today, T headed home. T ran 
through the neig bor's sprinkler a couple times to 
make it look like T was all sweaty, and that 
seemed to do the trick for Dad. 





But my trick kind of backfired, because as soon 
as Mom saw me, she made me go upstairs and 


take a shower. 


Wednesday 

a, guess Dad must have been pretty happy with 
himself for making me go outside yesterday, 
because he did i+ again today. 


Tts getting really annoying +o have to go up to 
Rowley's every time TL want to play a video game. 
Theres this weird kid named Fregley who lives 
halfway between my house and Rowley’s, and 
Fregley is always hanging out in his front yard. 
So it's pretty hard to avoid him. 





Fregley is in my Phys Ed class at school, and he 
has this whole made-up language. Like when he 
needs +o go to the bathroom, he says— 





) 
Us kids have pre much figured Fregle out 
now, but T Ta ast the teachers qA k 


caught on yet. 
* — Fie - 


- 





Today, a probably would have gone up to Rowley's 
on own anyway; because my brother Rodrick 
and his band were practicing down in the basement. 


24 


Rodrick’s band is REALLY awful, and IT cant 
stand being home when they're having rehearsals. 


His band is called “Loaded Diaper,” only it's 
spelled “Loded Diper" on Rodrick’s van. 


You might think he spelled it that way to make it 
look cooler, but T bet if you told Rodrick how 
“Loaded Diaper” is really spelled, it would be news 
to him. 





Dad was against the idea of Rodrick starting a 
band, but Mom was all for i+. 


She's the one who bought Rodrick his first 


drum set. 


30 


T think Mom has this idea that were all going 
to learn to play instruments and then become one 


of those family bands like you see on TV. 





Dad really hates heavy metal, and that's the 
kind of music Rodrick and his band play. T dont 
think Mom really cares what Rodrick plays or listens 
+o, because to her, all music is the same. Tn 
fact, earlier today, Rodrick was listening to one 
of his CDs in the family room, and Mom came in 
and started dancing. 





31 


That really bugged Rodrick, so he drove off to 
the store and came back fifteen minutes later 
with some headphones. And that pretty much 
took care of the problem. 





ursda 
Yesterday Rodrick got a new heavy metal CD, 
and it had one of those “Parental Warning” 
stickers on it. 


T have never gotten +o listen to one of those 
Parental Warning CDs, because Mom and Dad never 
let me buy them at the mall. So I realized the only 
way T was gonna get a chance to listen to 
Rodrick’s CD was if T snuck it out of the house. 


This moming, after Rodrick left, I called up Rowley 
and told him to bring his CD player +o school. 


32 


Then T went down to Rodrick's room and took 
the CD off his rack. 


am 


Youre not allowed +o bring personal music players 
+o school, so we had to wait to use it until after 
lunch when the teachers let us outside. As soon 
as we got the chance, me and Rowley snuck 
around the back of the school and loaded up 
Rodrick’s CD. 


But Rowley forgot to pet batteries in his CD 
player, So it was pretty much worthless. 


Then T came up with this great idea for a game. 
The object was to pet the headphones on your 
head and then try to shake them off without 
using your hands. 


33 


The winner was whoever could shake the headphones 
off in the shortest amount of time. 





ed Reed orev Nar eel 
but I thnk I might have shook some of my 
fillings loose with that one. 


Right in the middle of our game, Mrs. Craig came 
around the corner and caught us red-handed. She 
took the music player away from me and started 
chewing us ovt. 





34 


But T think she had the wrong idea about what 
we were doing back there. She started telling us 
how rock and roll is “evil” and how it's going to 
ruin our brains. 


T was going to tell her that there werent even 
any batteries in the CD player, but T could tell she 
* want +o be interrupted. So T just waited 
until she was done, and then T said, “Yes, ma'am.” 


But right when Mrs. Craig was about to let us 
gos e: started blubbering about how he doesnt 


want rock and roll to ruin his “brains.” 


q ? 


a7hy > 
3 » 


AE 


— 


Honestly, sometimes T don't know about that boy. 


Lt tle) HL H 


35 


rida 


Well, now Tve gone and done it. 


Last night, after everyone was in bed, T snuck 
downstairs to listen to Rodrick’s CD on the 
stereo in the family room. 


E put Rodrick's new headphones on and cranked 
up the volume REALLY high. Then T hit “play.” 


ch bo 


B- 


First, let me just say T can definitely understand 
why the pet het ‘Parental Warning” sticker 
on the D. 





Bot Í only got to hear about thirty seconds of 
the first song before I got interrupted. 


36 


T+ turns out T didnt have the headphones plugged 
into the stereo. So the music was actuall coming 


through the SPEAKERS, not the headphones. 


TE 


BE 
A 


Dad marched me up to my room and shut the 
door behind him, and then he said— 








Whenever Dad Says “friend” that way, you know 
youre in trouble. The first time Dad ever said 
“friend” like that to me, T didnt get that he was 
being sarcastic. So T kind of let my guard down. 





T don't make that mistake anymore. 


Tonight, Dad yelled at me for about ten minutes, 
and then T guess he decided hed rather be in bed 
than standing in my room in his underwear. He 
told me T was grounded from playing video games 
for +wo weeks, which is about what T. expected. 
T guess $ should be glad that's all he did. 


The good thing about Dad is that when he gets 


mad, he cools off real quick, and then it's over. 


38 


Usually, if you mess up in front of Dad, he just 
throws whatever he's got in his hands at you. 


GOOD TIME TO SCREW UP: 





Mom has a TOTALLY different style when it 
comes to punishment. Tf you mess up and Mom 
catches you the first thing she does is to take 


a few days to figure out what your punishment 
should be. 


39 


And while youre waiting, you do all these nice 
things to try to get off easier. 





But then after a few days, right when YOU 
forget youre in trouble, that's when she lays it 
on you. 


ARE YOU 
HAVING FUN? 





‘to 


M 

This video game ban is a whole lot tougher than 
$ thought it would be. But at least Tm not the 
only one in the family whos in trouble. 


Rodrick’s in some hot water with Mom right now, 
too. Manny get ahold of one of Rodrick's heavy 
metal magazines, and one of the pages had a 
picture of a woman in a bikini | ing across the 
hood of a car. And then Manny brought it into 
day care for show-and-tell. 


Pee 


Anyway, T dont think Mom was too happy about 
getting that phone call. 





T saw the magazine myself, and it honestly wasnt 
anything to get worked up over. But Mom doesnt 
allow that kind of stuff in the house. 


m 


Rodrick's punishment was that he had to answer 
a bunch of questions Mom wrote out for him. 


42 


Did owning thin, megan 
maka sou a bettin puson? 
No. 

Dia Ät maha you moe 
popar at school ? 


No. 
l J feel ashamed. 


magamine 
Tm sorry women. 


Tim still grounded from playing video games, so 
M has been using system. Mom went out and 
bought a whole bunch of educational video games, 
and watching Manny play them is like torture. 





The good news is that T finally figured out how 
to get some of my games past Rowley’s dad. T 
just put one of my discs in Manny's “Discovering 
the Alphabet" case, and that's all i+ takes. 





43 


ursa 
At school today, they announced that student 
government elections are coming up. To be honest 
with you, Ive never had any interest in student 
government. But when T started thinking about 
it, 1 realized getting elected Treasurer could 
TOTALLY change my situation at school. 


WE CHEERLEADERS 





And even better... 





Nobody ever thinks about running for Treasurer, 
because all anyone ever cares about are the big- 
ticket positions like President and Vice President. 
So T figure if T Sigh up tomorrow, the 
Treasurer job is pretty much mine for the taking. 


rida 
Today, T went and put my name on the list to 
run for Treasurer. Unfortunately, this kid named 
Marty Porter is running for Treasurer, too, and 
hes real brainy at math. So this might not be as 
easy as T thought. 


4S 


T told Dad that T was running for student 
government, and he seemed pretty excited. T+ 
turns out he ran for student government when 
he was my age, and he actually won. 


Dad dug through some old boxes in the basement 
and found one of his campaign posters. 








INTEGRITY 
HONESTY 
KNOW-HOW 


VOTE 


Frank Heffley 
FOR 
SECRETARY 





T thought the poster idea was pretty good, so 
T asked Dad to drive me to the store to get 
Some supplies. T loaded up oh poster board and 
markers, and T spent the rest of the night 
making all my campaign stuff. So let's just hope 
these posters work. 


46 


J brought my posters in to school today, and TL 
have to say, they came out pretty a 
o 


Do You Want 
MARTY PORTER 
to be 


o ye 
TREASURER? 








“Remember in second grade lag. 
Marty Porter had head lice? 






XO) 
Do you really want him 
touc ing YOUR money? 


47 


T started hanging my posters up as soon as I 
got in. But they were onl up for about three 
minutes before Vice Principal KA spotted them. 


Fah 


Mr. said you werent allowed to write 
“fabrications” about the other candidates. So T 
told Mr. Roy that the thing about the head lice 
was true, and how it practically closed down the 
whole school when it happened. 


= * took down all my posters anyway. . So today, 
Porter was going around handing out lollipops 
himself votes while my posters were sitting at 
‘he ottom of Mr. Roy's trash can. I guess this 
means my political career is officially over. 


48 


OCTOBER 
Monga 
Well, it’s finally October, and there are onl 
thirty days lef+ until Halloween. Halloween is 
my FAVORITE holiday, even though Mom says 
Tn getting too old to ge trick-or-treating 
anymore. 


Halloween is Dad's favorite holiday, too, but for 
a different reason. On Halloween night, while 
all the other parents are handing out candy, 
Dad is hiding in the bushes with a big ak 
can full of water. 


And if any teenagers pass by our driveway, he 
drenches ka 7 7 





49 


Tm not sure Dad really understands the concept 
of Halloween. But Tm not gonna be the one who 
spoils his fun. 






i 
Tonight was the opening night of the Crossland 
High School haunted house, and T got Mom +o 
agree to take me and Rowley. 


Rowley showed up at my house wearing his Halloween 
costume from last year. When T called him earlier 
T told him to just wear regular clothes, but of 
course he didnt listen. 





50 


LT tried not to let it bother me too much, though. 
Tie never been allowed to go to the Crossland 
haunted house before, and T wasnt going to let 
Rowley ruin it for me. Rodrick has told me all 
about it, and Le been looking forward to this 
for about three years. 


Anyway, when we got to the entrance, T 
started having second thoughts about going in. 


GER Sug 
3: 


But Mom seemed like she was in a hurry to get this 
over with, and she moved us along. Once we were 
through the gate, it was one scare after another. 
There were Vampires jumping out at you and people 
without heads and all sorts of crazy stuff. 





51 


But the worst part was this area called Chainsaw 
Alley. There was this big oy in a hockey mask 
and he had a REAL chainsaw. Rodrick told me 
the chainsaw has a rubber blade, but T wasnt 
taking any chances. 


RRRRRRRRRRARRY 


Mtn, 
. 






Right when it looked like the chainsaw gey 
was goihg to catch us, Mom stepped in and 
bailed us ovt. 





Mom made the chainsaw gy show us where the 
exit was, and that was the end of our haunted 
house experience right there. T guess it was a 
litte embarrassing when Mom did that, but Im 
willing to let it go this one time. 


Saturda 

The Crossland haunted house really got me thinking. 
Those grys were charging five bucks a pope and 
the line stretched halfway around the school. 


T decided to make a haunted house of my owh. 
Actually , Í had to bring Rowley in on the deal, 
because Mom wouldnt let me convert our first 
floor into a full-out haunted mansion. 


T knew Rowley’s dad wouldn't be crazy about the 
idea, either, so we decided to build the haunted 
house in his basement and just not mention it to 
his parents. 


Me and Rowley spent most of the da coming up 


with an awesome plan for our haunted house. 


53 


Here was our final plan: 


91592 


9198 se RAT TUNNEL 
© @ 2 Pinze OF 


O vine 
SKULLS 
ALYY ak 
— =, 
— “Wg” A 
2 0Ro j 





T don't mean to brag or an thing, but what 
we came up with was WAY better than the 
Crossland High School haunted house. 


We realized we were gonna need to get the word 
out that we were doing this thing, So we got 
Some paper and made up a bunch of flyers. 


54 


T'll admit maybe we stretched the truth a little 
in our advertisement, but we had to make sure 


people actually showed up. 


HAUNTED 


gl USE 


SHARKS? 
oO Pe 


32 SURREY STREET 
ADMISSION: 50¢ 
3:00 p.m. 






the time we finished putting the flyers up 
around the neighborhood and got back +o 
Rowley's basement, it was already 2:30, and we 
hadnt even started putting the actual haunted 
house together yet 


So we had to cut some corners from our 


original plan. 


55 


When 3:00 rolled around, we looked outside to 
see if anyone had showed up. And sure enough, 
there were about twenty neighborhood kids warting 


in line outside Rowley's basement. 

Now, I know our flyers said admission was fif 
cents, but + could see that we had a chance to 
make a killing here. 


So L told the kids that admission was two bucks, 
and the fifty-cent thing was just a typo. 


ei 8 

ST 

. 4 

h o —— n 

-19 £ E 
y 
ipi Hof 

- i —⸗ 

An m Ma — 


⸗ 





The first kid to cough up his two bucks was 
Shane Snella. He paid his money and we let him 
inside, and me and Rowley took our positions in 


the Hall of Screams. 


56 


The Hall of Screams was basically a bed with me 
and Rowley on either side of it. 





1 guess maybe we made the Hall of Screams a 
little +00 scary, because halfwa through, Shane 
curled up in a ball underneath the bed. We tried 
to get him to crawl out from under there, but 
he wouldnt budge. 


T started thinking about all the money we were 
losing with this kid clogging up the Hall of Screams, 
and TL knew we had to get him out of there, quick. 


Eventually, Rowley dad came downstairs. At 
first T was happ to see him, because T thought 
he could help us drag Shane out from under the 
bed and get our haunted house cranking again. 


But Rowley’s dad wasn't really ina helpful mood. 





Rowley's dad wanted to know what we were 
doing, and why Shane Shella was curled up under 
the bed. 


We told him that the basement was a haunted 
house, and that Shane Shella actually PAID 
for us to do this to him. But Rowley’s dad didnt 


believe us. 


T admit that if you looked around, it didnt 
really look like a haunted house. All we had time 
to put together was the Hall of Screams and the 
Lake of Blood, which was just Rowley’s old 
baby pool with half a bottle of ketchup in it. 


58 


T tried to show Rowley’s dad our original plan 
to prove that we really were running a legitimate 
operation, but he still didnt seem convinced. 


FON 
. * 





And to make a long story short, that was the 
end of our haunted house. 





The good news is, since Rowleys dad didnt 
believe us, he didn+ make us refund Shane's 
money. So at least we cleared two bucks today. 


54 


Sunda 

Rowley ended up getting grounded for that whole 
haunted house mess yesterday. He's not allowed +o 
watch TV for a week, AND hes not allowed to 


have me over at his house during that time. 


That last part really isnt fair, because that's 
punishing me, and I didnt even do anything 
wrong. And now where am I supposed to play 
my video games? 


Anyway, T felt kind of bad for Rowley. So 
tonight, I tried to make it up to him. I turned 
on one of Rowley's favorite TV shows, and T 
did a play-by-play over the phone so he could 
kind of experience it that way. 


WOW! LOOK AT THE SIZE 
OF THAT FLAMETHROWER! 
MIND. 





60 


T did my best to keep up with what was going on 
on the screen, but to be honest with ‘ou, Tm 
not sure if Rowley was getting the full effect. 





vesda 
Well, wley’s grounding is finally over, and just 
in time for Halloween, too. T went up to his 
house to check out his costume, and 1 have to 
admit, Lm a little jealous. 


Rowley's Mom got him this knight costume that's 
WAY cooler than his costume from last year. 


61 


His knight outfit came with a helmet and a shield 
and a real sword and EVERYTHING. 





Te never had a store-bought costume before. 
T still havent figured out what Lm gonna go as 
tomorrow night, so T'I probably just throw 
something together at the last minute. T figure 
maybe Til bring back the Toilet Paper Mummy again. 


But L think it's supposed to rain tomorrow 
night, so that might not be the smartest choice. 





62 


Tn the past few years, the grown-ups in my 
neighborhood have been getting cranky about 

lame costumes, ahd Im starting to think it's 
actually having an effect on the amount of candy 
Tm bringing in. 





But I dont really have time +o pet together a 
good costume, because Lm in charge of planning 
out the best route for me and Rowley +o take 
tomorrow night. 


This year Te come up with a plan that'll get us 
at least twice the candy we scored last year. 


63 


Halloween 

About an hour before we were supposed to start 
trick-or-treating, T still didnt have a costume. 
At that point T was seriously thinking about 
going as a cowboy for the second year in a row. 


But then Mom knocked at my door and handed 
me a pirate costume, with an eye patch and a 
hook and everything. 





Rowley showed up around 6:30 wearing his 
knight costume, but it didnt look ANYTHING 
like it looked yesterday. 


Rowley’s mom made all these safety improvements 
+o it, and you couldn't even tell what he was 
supposed +o be anymore. 


64 


She cut out a big hole in the front of the helmet 
so he could see better, and covered him vp in all 
this reflective tape. She made him wear his winter 
coat underneath everything, and she replaced his 
sword with a glow stick. 





È grabbed my pillowcase, and me and Rowley 
started to head out. But Mom stopped us before 
we could get out the door. 





Man, T should have known there was a catch 
when Mom gave me that costume. 


T told Mom there was no WAY we were taking 
Manny with us, because we were going to hit 152 
houses in three hours. And plus, we were going 
+o be on Snake Road, which is way too dangerous 
for a litte kid like Manny. 


T should never have mentioned that last part, 
because the next thing T knew, Mom was telling 
Dad he had to go along with us to make sure we 
didnt step foot outside our neighborhood. Dad 
tried to squirm out of it, but once Mom makes up 
her mind, there's no way you can change it. 





66 


Before we even get out of our own driveway, we 
ran into our neighbor Mr. Mitchell and his kid 
Jeremy. So of course THEY tagged along with us. 


Manny and Jeremy wouldnt trick-or-treat at an 
houses with spooky decorations on them, so that 
ruled out pretty much every house on our block. 


Dad and Mr. Mitchell started talking about 
football or something, and every time one of them 
wanted to make a point, theyd stop walking, 






BLAH BLAH 





BLAH BLAH 
BLAH BLAH 
BLAH BLAH 






So we were hitting only about one house every 
twenty minutes. 


67 


After a couple of hours, Dad and Mr. Mitchell 
took the little kids home. 


T was glad, because that meant me and Rowley 
could take off. My pillowcase was almost empty, 
so T. wanted to make up as much time as possible. 


A little while later, Rowley told me he needed a 
“potty break." T made him hold off for another 
forty-five minutes. But by the time we got to my 
grammas house, it was pretty clear that if T didnt 
let Rowley use the bathroom, it was gonna get messy. 


So T +old Rowley if he wasnt back outside in 
one minute, T was gonna start helping myself to 


his candy. 





After that, we headed back out on the road. 
But it was already 10:30, and T guess that's 
when most grown-ups decide Halloween is over. 


You can kind of tell because that’s when they 
start coming to the door in their pa i jamas and 
giving you the evil eye. 





We decided +o head home. We made up a lot of 
time after Dad and Manny left, so Í was prety 
satisfied with how much candy we took in. 


When we were halfway home, this pickup truck 
came roaring down the street with a bunch of 


high school kids in it. 


649 


The kid in the back was holding a fire extinguisher, 
and when the truck passed by us, he opened fire. 





T have +o give Rowley credit, because he blocked 
about 15% of the water with his shield. And if 
he hadnt done that, all our candy would have 

gotten soaked. 


When the truck drove away, T yelled out something 
that I regretted about two seconds later. 





The driver slammed on the brakes and he turned 
his truck around. Me and Rowley started running, 
but those guys were right on our heels. 


The only place T could think of that was safe 
was Grammas house, so we cut through a couple 
backyards to get there. Gramma was in bed 
already, but T knew she keeps a key under the 
mat on her front porch. 


Once we got inside, T looked out the window to see 
if those guys had followed us, and sure enough, 
they hd + tried to trick them into leaving, but 
they wouldn + budge. 





s — — 
WE'RE 


7 


After a while, we realized the teenagers were 
going to wait us out, so we decided we were just 
gonna have +o spend the night at Gramma's. 
That's when we started getting cocky, making 
monkey noises at the teenagers and whatnot. 


Well, at least T was making monkey noises. 
Rowley was kind of making owl noises, but T 
guess it was the same general idea. 





T called Mom +o tell her we were going to crash 
at Gramma's for the night. But Mom sounded 
really mad on the phone. 


She said it was a school night, and that we had 
to get home right that instant. So that meant 
we were gonna have +o make a run for it. 


T looked out the window, and this time, T didnt 
see the truck. But T knew those guys were hiding 
somewhere and were just trying +o draw us out. 


So we snuck out the back door, hopped over 
Grammas fence, and ran all the way to Snake 
Road. T figured our chances were better there 
because there aren+ any streetlights. 


Snake Road iS Stå enough on its own without 
having a truckload of teenagers hunting yov 


down. Eve time we Saw a car coming, we dove 
into the bushes. T+ must've taken us a half 
hour +o ge 100 yards. 


NYO 





But believe it or not, we made it all the wa 
home without getting caught. Neither one of us 
le+ our guard down until we got to my driveway. 





But right then, there was this awful scream, and 


we Saw a big wave of water coming toward us. 





Man, T forgot ALL about Dad, and we totally 
paid the price for it. 





When me and Rowley got inside, we laid out all 
our candy on the kitchen table. 


The onl things we could salvage were a couple of 
mints ia were wrapped in cellophane, and the 


toothbrushes Dr. Garrison gave us. 


T think next Halloween T'I just stay home and 
mooch Some Butterfingers from the bowl Mom 
keeps on top of the refrigerator. 


NOVEMBER 
rsda 
On the bus ride into school today, we passed by 
Grammas house. T+ got rolled with toilet paper 
last night, which TL guess was no big surprise. 





T do feel a little bad, because it looked like i+ was 
gonna take a long time +o clean vp. But on the 
bright side, Gramma is retired, so she probably 
didnt have anything planned for today anyway. 


Wednesday 
Tn third period, Mr. Underwood, our Phys Ed 
teacher, announced that the boys will þe doing a 


wrestling unit for the next six weeks. 


76 


TF there's one thing most boys in my school are 
into, its professional wrestling. So Mr. 
Underwood might as well have set off a bomb. 


Lunch comes right after Phys Ed, and the 


cafeteria was a complete madhouse. 





T dont know what the school is thinking having 
a wrestling unit. 


But T decided if T dont want to get twisted 
into a pretzel for the next month and a half, Td 
better do my homework on this wrestling business. 


So T rented a couple of video games to learn 
some moves. And you know what? After a while, 
T was really starting to get the hang of it. 





In fact, the other kids in class had better 
look out, because if I keep A up, T could be a 
real threat. 





78 


Then again, T better make sure T don't do 
TOO good. This kid named Preston Mudd got 
named Athlete of the Month for being the best 
player in the basketball unit, so they pet his 
picture up in the hallway. 





T+ took people about five seconds to realize how 
"P. Mudd” sounded when you said it out loud, 
and after that, it was all over for Preston. 





ursda: 
Well, T found ovt today that the kind of wrestling 
Mr. Underwood is teaching is COMPLETELY 
different from the kind they do on TV. 


First of all, we have to wear these things called 
“singlets,” which look like those bathing suits 
they used to wear in the 1800s. 


fi 


And second of all, there are no pile drivers or 
hitting people over the heads with chairs or 
anything like that. 





There's not even a ring with ropes around it. 
Tts just basically a Sweaty mat that smells like 
its never been washed before. 


80 


Mr. Underwood started asking for volunteers so 
he could demonstrate some wrestling holds, but 
there was ho way $ was gong to raise my hand. 


Me and Rowley tried to hide out in the back of 
the gym hear the curtain, but that's where the 
girls were doing their gymnastics unit. 





We got out of there in a hurry, and we went 
back to where the rest of the guys were. 


Mr. Underwood singled me out, probably because 
Tim the lightest kid in the class, and he could 
toss me around without straining himself. He 
showed everybody how to do all these things 
called a “half nelson” and a “reversal” and a 
“takedown” and stuff like that. 


When he was doing this one move called the 
“fireman's carry,” T felt a breeze down below, 
and T could +ell my singlet wasnt doing a good 
job keeping me covered vp. 


Thats when T thanked my lucky stars the 
girls were on the other side of the gy 





Mr. Underwood divided us up into weight groups. 
T was pretty happy about that at first, 
because it meant T wasnt going to have to 
wrestle kids like Benny Wells, who can bench-press 
250 pounds. 





82 


But then T found out who L DID have +o wrestle, 
and TL would have traded for Benny Wells in a 
heartbeat. 





Fregley was the only kid light enough +o be in my 
weight class. And apparently Fregley was paying 
attention when Mr. Underwood was giving 
instructions, because he pinned me every which way 
you could imagine. T spent my seventh period 
getting WAY more familiar with Fregley than T 


ever wanted to be. 





83 


vesda 
This wrestling unit has totally turned our school 
upside down. Now kids are wrestling in the hallways, 
in the classrooms, you name it. But the fifteen 
minutes after lunch where they let us outside is 
the worst. 


You cant walk five feet without tripping over a 
couple of kids going at it. $ just try to keep 

distance. And mark words, one of these 
fools is going to roll right onto the Cheese and 
start the Cheese “Touch all over again. 





84 


My other big problem is that T have to wrestle 
Fregley every single day. But this morning T 
realized something. Tf I can move out of 
Fregley’s weight class, T wont have to wrestle 
him SOrD: 


So today, T stuffed my clothes with a bunch of 
socks and shirts to get myself into the next 
weight class. 


But LT was still too light +o move up. 





T realized T was gonna have to gan weight for 
real. Àt first T thought T should just start 
loading up on junk food, but then T had a much 
better idea. 


85 


T decided to gan my weight in MUSCLE, not fat. 


The never been all that interested in getting in 
shape before, but this wrestling unit has made me 
rethink things. 


T figure if LT bulk up how, it could actually come 
in handy down the road. 


The football unit is coming ih the spring, and 
they split the teams up into shirts and skins. 
And T ALWAYS get put on skins. 


T think they do that to make all the out-of-shape 
kids feel ashamed of themselves. 





Tf T can pack on some muscle now, it'll be a 


whole different story next April. 





Tonight, after dinner, T got Mom and Dad 
together and told them my plan. LT told them T 
was going to need some serious exercise equipment, 
and Some weight-gain powder, too. 


T showed them some muscle magazines = got at 
the store so they could see how ripped T was 
going +o be. 





87 


Mom didnt really say anything at first, but Dad 
was pretty enthusiastic. T think he was just 
glad T had a change of heart from how T used 
+o be when I was a kid— 





But Mom said if IT wanted a weight set, I was 
going to have +o prove that T could stick with 
an exercise regimen. She said T could do that by 
doing sit-ups and Jumping jacks for two weeks. 


T had to explain that the only way to get 
totally bulked up is to get the kind of high-tech 
machines they have at the gy” but Mom didnt 
want to hear it. 


Then Dad said if IT wanted a bench press, T 
should keep my fingers crossed for Christmas. 





But Christmas is a month and a half away. And 
fT get pinned by Fregle one more time, Lm 


gonna have a nervous brea down. 


So it looks like Mom and Dad arent going to be 
"y help. And that means Tm going to have to 


take matters into my own hands, as usual. 


Saturda 

T couldnt wait to start m weight-training 
program today. Even though Mom wouldnt let 
me get the equipment 1 needed, T wasnt going 
to let that hold me back. 


34 


So T went into the fridge and emptied out the 
milk and orange juice and filled the jugs with 
sand. Then T taped them to a broomstick, and 
T had myself a pretty decent barbell. 





After that, I made a bench press out of an 
ironing board and some boxes. Once T had that 
all set, T was ready +o do some serious lifting. 


T needed a spotting partner, so T called 
Rowley. And when he showed up at my door 
wearing some ridiculous getup, T knew T made 
a mistake inviting him. 





40 


T made Rowley use the bench press first, mostly 
because TL wanted to see if the broomstick was 
going to hold vp. 


He did about five reps, and he was ready to 
quit, but T wouldnt let him. That's what a 
good training partner is for, to push you 
beyond your limits. 





T knew Rowley wasnt going to be as serious 
about weight lifting as I was, so T decided +o 
try out an experiment to test his dedication. 


Tn the middle of Rowley’s set, LT went and got 
this phony hose and mustache Rodrick has in his 


junk drawer. 


n 


And right when Rowley had the barbell in the 
“down” position, T leaned over and looked at him. 


FPOOOO/ 


% 
Sure enough, Rowley TOTALLY lost his 
concentration. He couldnt even get the barbell 
off his chest. T thought about helping him out, 
but then T realized that if Rowley didn't get 


serious about working out, he was never going to 






a4 


get to my level. 





T eventually had +o rescue him, because he started 
biting the milk jug to let the sand leak out. 


92 


After Rowley got off the bench press, it was 
time for my set. But Rowley said he didnt feel 
like working out anymore, and he went home. 


You know, A. figured hed pull something like that. 
But T guess you cant expect everyone +o have 
the same Lind, of dedication as yo 

Wednesda 

Today in Geography we had a quiz, and T have 
to Say, Tre been looking forward to this one for 
a long time. 


The quiz was on state capitals, and T sit in 
the back of the room, right next to this giant 
map of the United States. All the capitals are 
written in big red print, so T knew T had this 


one in the bag. 
93 





But right before the test got started, Patty 
Farrell piped E from the front of the room. 





Hy told Mr. = that he should cover up the 
7— States map before we got started. 





So thanks +o Patty, T ended up flunking the 
quiz. And T will definitely be looking for a way 
to pay her back for that one. 


94 


ursda 
Tonight Mom came up to my room, and she had a 
flyer in her hand. As soon as T saw it, T knew 
EXACTLY what it was. 


T+ was an announcement that the school is having 

s for a winter play. Man, T should have 
thrown thet thing out when tT saw it on the 
kitchen table. 


T BEGGED her not to make me sign up. Those 
school plays are ae musicals, and the last 
thing T need is to have to sing a solo in front 
of the whole school. 





But all my begging seemed to do was make Mom 
more sure T should do it. 


95 


Mom said the only way T was going to be 
“well-rounded” was by trying different things. 


Dad came in my room to see what was going on. 
LT told Dad that Mom was making me sigh up for 
the school play, and that if T had to start 
going to play practices, it would totally mess up 
my weight-lifting schedule. 


T knew that would make Dad take my side. Dad 
and Mom argued for a few minutes, but Dad was 


no match for Mom. 


So that means tomorrow Tve got to audition 
for the school play. 





riga 
The play they're doing this year is “The Wizard 
of Oz.” A lot of kids came wearing costumes for 
the parts they were trying out for. 


46 


Tre never even seen the movie, So for me, it 
was like walking into a freak show. 





Mrs. Norton, the music director, made everyone 
sing "My Country "Tis of Thee” so she could hear 
our singing Voices. T did my singing tryouts with 
a bunch of other boys whose moms made them 
come, too. TL tried to sing as quietly as possible, 
but of course T get singled out, anyway. 





17 


T have no idea what a “soprano” is, but from 
the way some of the girls were giggling, T knew 
it wasnt a good thing. 


Tryouts went on forever. The grand finale came 
with auditions for Dorothy, who T guess is the 
lead character in the play. 





T thought about trying out for the part of the 
Witch, because TL heard that in the play, the 
Witch does all sorts of mean things to Dorothy. 


But then somebody told me there's a Good Witch 
and a Bad Witch, and with my luck, I'd end up 
getting picked to be the — 


48 


T was hoping Mrs. Norton would just cut me from 
the play, but today she said that everyone who 
tried out is going to get a part. So lucky me. 


Mrs. Norton showed “The Wizard of Oz” movie 
So everyone would know the story. T was trying 
to figure out what part T should play, but 
pretty much every character has to sing or dance 
at one point or another. But about halfwa 
through the movie, T figured out what part 3 
wanted to sigh up for. I'm going to sigh up to 
be a Tree, because 1) they don't have to sing 
and 2) they get to bean Dorothy with apples. 





99 


Getting to peg Patty Farrell with apples in 
front of a live audience would be my dream come 
true. T may actually have to thank Mom for 
making me do this play once it's all over. 


After the movie ended, T signed up +o be a Tree. 
Unfortunately, a bunch of other gys had the 
same idea as me, so L guess there are a lot of 


ays who have a bone to pick with Patty Farrell. 


Wednesda 

Well, like Mom always says, be careful what you 
wish for. I got picked to be a Tree, but 
don't know if that's such a good thing. The 
Tree costumes dont actually have arm holes, so 


T guess that le-throwing, 





T should probably feel lucky that T got a 
speaking part at all. They had +too many kids 
trying out, and not enough roles, so they had 
+o start making up characters. 


Rodney James tried out to be the Tin Man, but 
he get stuck with being the Shrub. 





ida 
Remember how T said T was lucky to get a 
speaking part? Well, today T found ovt T only 
have one line in the whole play. $ " it when 
Dorothy picks an apple off my branch. 


— 





101 


That means T have +o ge toa +wo-hour practice 
every day just so T can say one stupid word. 


Im starting to think Rodney James got a better 
deal as the Shrub. He found a way +o sneak a 
video game into his costume, and L'll bet that 
really makes the time ge by. 





So now Tm trying to think of ways to get Mrs. 
Norton +o kick me out of the pia . But when 
you only have one word to say, it's really hard +o 
mess up your lines. 





102 


DECEMBER 
rsdai 
The play is only a couple of days away, and T 
have no idea how were going to pull this thing off. 


First of all, nobody has bothered to learn their 
lines, and thats all Mrs. Norton's fault. 


During rehearsal, Mrs. Norton whispers everyone's 
lines to them from the side of the stage. 





T wonder how it's gong to ge next Teesday 
when Mrs. Norton is sitting at her Piano thirty 
feet away. 


103 


Another thing that's screwing everything vp iS 
that Mrs. Norton keeps adding new scenes and 
new characters. 


Yesterday, she brought in this first-grader +o 
play Dorothy's dog, Toto. But today, the kid's 
mom came in and said she wanted her child to 
walk around on two legs, because crawling around 
on all fours would be too “degrading.” 






Ba tf 


So now weve get a dog that's gonna be walking 
around on his hind legs for the whole show. 


But the worst change is that Mrs. Norton actually 
wrote a song that us TREES have +o sing. 
She said everyone “deserves” a chance to sing 


in the play. 


10+ 


So today we spent an hour learning the worst 
song that's ever been written. 





Thank God Rodrick wont be in the audience to 
see me humiliate myself. Mrs. Norton said the 
play iS going to be a “semiformal occasion,” and 
F know there's no wa Rodrick is going to wear 
a tie for a middle school play. 


But today wasn't all bad. Toward the end of 
practice, Archie Kelly tripped over Rodney James 
and chipped his tooth because he couldn't stick 
his arms out to break his fall. 





Z 
IONA 
So the good news iS, theyre letting us Trees 


carve out arm holes for the performance. 


Tonight was the big school production of “The Wizard 
of Oz.” The first sign that things were hot going to 
gp well happened before the play even started. 


T was peeking through 
the curtain to check out 
how many people showed 
up to see the play, and 
guess who was standing 
right up front? My 
brother Rodrick, wearing 


a clip-on tie. 





106 


He must have found out T was singing, and he 
couldnt resist the chance to see me embarrass myself. 


The play was Supposed to start at 8:00, but it get 
delayed because Rodney James had stage fright. 


You'd figure that someone whose job it was to sit 
on the stage and do nothing could just suck it vp 
for one performance. But Rodney wouldnt budge, 
and eventually , his mom had to carry him off. 





The play finally got started around 8:30. 
Nobody could remember their lines, just ike T 
predicted, but Mrs. Norton kept things moving 
along with her piano. 


107 


The kid who played Toto brought a stool and a 
pile of comic books onto the stage, and that 
totally ruined the whole “dog” effect. 






= = 

Sao ft 
When it was time for the forest scene, me and 
the other Trees hopped into our positions. The 
curtains rose, and when they did, T heard 
Manny's Voice. 





Great. T have been able to keep that nickname 
quiet for five years, and now all of the sudden 
the whole town knew it. T could feel about 300 
pairs of eyeballs pointed my way. 


So T did some quick ad-libbing and TL was able to 
deflect the embarrassment over to Archie Kelly. 





But the ma ajor embarrassment was still on the 
way. When T heard Mrs. Norton playing the 
first few bars of “We Three Trees,” T felt my 
stomach jump- 


T looked out at the audience, and T noticed 
Rodrick was holding a Video camera. 


109 


T knew that if I sang the song and Rodrick 
recorded it, he would keep the tape forever and 
use it to humiliate me for the rest of my life. 


T didnt know what to do, so when the time 
came to start singing, T just kept my mouth shut. 





For a few seconds there, things went OK. T 
figured that if T didnt technically sing the 
song, then Rodrick wouldn't have anything +o 
hold over my head. But after a few seconds, the 
other Trees noticed T wasnt singing. 


110 


tT guess they must've thought T knew something 
that they didnt, so they stopped singing, too. 





4 


Now the three of us were just standing there, 
not saying a word. Mrs. Norton must have 
thought we forgot the words to the song, 
because she came over to the side of the stage 
and whispered the rest of the lyrics to us. 





The song is only about three minutes long, but 
+o me it felt like an hour and a half. T was just 
praying the curtains would go down so we could 
hop off the stage. 


Thats when T noticed Patty Farrell standing in 
the wings. And if looks could kill, us Trees would 
be dead. She probably thought we were ruining her 
chances of making it to Broadway or something. 


ip 
| 
| 


Seeing Patty standing there reminded me why $ 
signed up to be a Tree in the first place. 





Pretty soon, the rest of the Trees started 
throwing apples, too. TL think “Toto even get in 
on the act. 


Somebody knocked the glasses off of Patty's 
head, and one of the lenses broke. Mrs. Norton 
had to shut down the play after that, because 
Pa can't see two feet in front of her 
without her glasses. 


After the play was over, my family went home 
together. Mom had brought a bouquet of flowers, 
and T guess they were supposed +o be for me. 
But she ended up tossing them in the trash can 
on the way out the door. 


T jest hope that everyone who came to see the 
play was as entertained as T was. 





113 


We: nesda 
Well, if one good thing came out of the pla , it's 
that T dont have to worry about the “Bubby” 


nickname anymore. 


T saw Archie Kelly getting hassled in the hallway 
after fifth period today, so it looks like T can 
finally start to breathe a little easier. 





Sy 

With all this stuff going on at school, T 
havent even had time to think about Christmas. 
And it’s less than ten days away. 


u4 


Tn fact, the only thing that tipped me off 
that Christmas was coming was when Rodrick pet 
his wish list up oh the refrigerator. 


+" 


Rodiks Wish 
List 





LT usually make a big wish list every year, but 
this Christmas, all I really want is this video 
game called Twisted atl 


Tonight Manny was going through the Christmas 
catalog, picking out all the stuff he wants with 
a big red marker. Manny was circling every single 
toy in the catalog. He was even circling really 
expensive things like a giant motorized car and 
stuff like thet. 


— * 


So T decided to step in and give him some good 
big-brotherly advice. 


LT told him that if he circled stuff that was 
too expensive, he was going to end up with a 
bunch of clothes for Christmas. I said he 
should just pick three or four medium-priced 
gifts so he would end up with a couple of 
things he actually wanted. 





But of course Manny just went back +o circling 


everything again. So T guess he'll just have to 
learn the hard way. 


When T was seven, the only thing 1 really 
wanted for Christmas was a Barbie Dream House. 
And NOT because T like girls’ toys, like 
Rodrick said. 


116 


T just thought it would be a really awesome fort 
for my toy soldiers. 


When Mom and Dad saw my wish list that year, 
they get ina big fight over it. Dad said there was 
no way he was getting me a dollhouse, but Mom 
said it was healthy for me to “experiment” with 
whatever kind of toys T wanted +o play with. 





Believe it or not, Dad actually won that argument. 
Dad told me to start my wish list over and pick 
Some toys that were more “appropriate for boys. 


But TL have a secret weapon when it comes +o 
Christmas. My Uncle Charlie always gets me whatever 
T want. T told him TL wanted the Barbie Dream 
House re and he said hed hook me up. 


On Christmas, when Uncle Charlie gave me 

gift, it was NOT what I asked for. He mustve 
walked into the toy store and picked up the first 
thing he saw that had the word “Barbie” 


on it. 


So if you ever See a picture of me where Tm 
holding a Beach Fun Barbie, now at least you 
know the whole story. 





Dad wasn't real happy when he saw what Uncle 
Charlie got me. He told me to either throw it 
out or give it away to charity. 


But I kept it anyway. And OK, T admit maybe 
TL took it out and played with it once or twice. 


118 


That's how T ended up in the emergency room 
+wo weeks later with a pink Barbie shoe stuck up 
nose. And believe me, Rodrick has never let 

me hear the end of THAT. 





ur 
Tonight me and Mom went out to get a gift for 
the Giving Tree at church. The Giving Tree iS 
basically a Secret Santa kind of thing where you 
get a gift for someone who is needy. 


Mom picked out a red wool sweater for our 


Giving Tree ay: 


T tried to talk Mom into getting something a 
lot cooler, like a TV or a slushie machine or 
something like that. 


119 


Because imagine if all you got on Christmas was 


a wool sweater, 





Tm sure our Giving Tree gy will throw his sweater 
in the trash, along with the ten cans of yams we 
sent his way during the Thanksgiving Food Drive. 


Christmas 

When T woke up +this moming and went downstairs, 
there were about a million gifts under the Christmas 
tree. But when T started digging around, there 
were hardly any gifts with my hame on them. 





But Manny made out like a bandit. He get EVERY 
single thing he circled in the catalog, no lie. So 
T'll bet he’s glad he didn't listen to me. 





T did find a couple things with my name on 
them, but they were mostly books and socks and 
stuff like that. 


T opened my gifts in the corner behind the 
couch, because T dont like opening gifts near 
Dad. Whenever someone opens a gift, Dad swoops 
right in and cleans up after them. 





121 


T gave Manny a + helicopter and Í gave 
Rodrick a book about rock bands. Rodrick gave 
mea book, too, but of course he didnt wrap it. 
The book he got me was “Best of Lil Cutie.” 
“Lil Cutie” is the worst comic in the newspaper, 
and Rodrick knows how much T hate it. T think 
this is the fourth year in a row Tve gotten a 
"L'il Cutie” book from him. 





{T gave Mom and Dad their gifts. T get them 
the same kind of thing every year, but parents 
eat that stuff up. 





122 


The rest of the relatives started showing up 
around 11:00, and Uncle Charlie came at noon. 


Uncle Charlie brought a big trash bag full of 
gifts, and he pulled my present out of the top 
of the bag. 





The package was the exact right size and shape 
to be a Twisted Wizard game, So T knew Uncle 
Charlie came through for me. Mom got the camera 
ready and I tore open my gift. 





But it was just an 8x10 picture of Uncle Charlie. 





J guess T didnt do a good job of hiding my 
disappointment, and Mom got mad. All T can sa 
is, Lm glad L'm still a kid, because if T had 
to act happy about the kinds of gifts grown-ups 
get, T dont think T could pull it off. 





T went up to my room +o take a break for a 
while. A couple minutes later, Dad knocked on my 
door. He told me he had my gift for me out in 
the garage, and the reason it was out there was 
because i+ was too big to wrap. 





And when T walked down to the garage, there 


was a brand-new weight set. 





That thing must have cost a fortune. L didn+ 
have the heart to tell Dad that T kind of lost 
interest in the whole weight-lifting thing when 
the wrestling unit ended last week. So T just 
said “thanks” instead. 


T think Dad was expecting me to drop down and 
start doing Some reps or something, but T just 
excused myself and went back inside. 


At about 6:00, all the relatives cleared out. 


T was sitting on the couch watching Manny play 
with his toys, feeling pretty so for myself, 
Then Mom came up to me and said that she 
found a gift behind the piano with my name on 
it, and it said, “From Santa.” 





126 


The box was way too big for Twisted Wizard, but 
Mom pulled the same "big box” trick on me last 
year when she got me a memory card for my 
video game system. 


Sot ripped open the package and pulled out my 
present. Onl this wasn + Twisted Wizard, 
either. T+ was a giant red wool sweater. 


— 





At+ first T thought Mom was playing Some 
kind of practical joke on me, because this 
sweater was the same kind we bought for our 


Giving Tree gy- 


But Mom seemed pre confused, too. She said 
she DID buy me a Video game, and that she had 
no idea what the sweater was doing in my box. 


And then I figured it out. L told Mom there 
must have been some kind of mix-up, and ae got 
the Giving Tree gys gift, and he got mine. 





Mom said she used the same kind of wrapping 
paper for both of our gifts, so she must've 
written the wrong hames on the tags. 


But then Mom said that this was really a good 


thing, because the Giving Tree gry was probably 
really happy he got such a great gift. 


ITSA 
CHRISTMAS 
— 


128 


T had to explain that you need a game system 
and a TV to play Twisted Wizard, so the game 


was totally useless +o him. 


Q 


Even though my Christmas was hot going that 
great, Tm sure it was going a whole lot worse 


for the Giving Tree 9y" 





T kind of decided +o throw in the towel for this 
Christmas, and T headed up to Rowley’s house. 


129 


T forgot to get a gift for Rowley, so Í jest 
slapped a bow on the “Lil Cutie” book 
Rodrick gave me. 


And that seemed to do the trick. 





Rowley’s parents have a lot of money, so Í can 
always count on them for a good gift. 


But Rowley said that this year he picked out my 
gift himself. Then he brought me outside to show 


me what it was. 
From the way Rowley was hyping his present, T. 


thought he must have gotten me a big-screen 
TV ora motorcycle or something. 


130 


But once again, T let my hopes get too high. 





Rowley got me a Big Wheel. T guess T would 
have thought this was a cool gift when T was in 
the third grade, but T have no idea what Lm 
supposed +o do with one how. 


Rowley was So enthusiastic about it that I tried 
my best to act like T was happy anyway. 


as 


We went back inside, and Rowley showed me his 
Christmas loot. 


He sure got a lot more stuff than T did. He 
even got Twisted Wizard, so at least T can play 
it when T come up to his house. That is, until 
Rowley’s dad finds out how violent it is. 


And boy, you have never seen someone as happy as 
Rowley with his “Lil Cutie” book. His mom pu it 
was only thing on his list that he didnt get. 


Well, I'm glad SOMEONE got what they 
wanted today. 





New Year's Eve 
Th case youre wondering what Tm doing in my room 
at 4:00 p.m. on New Years Eve, let me fill you in. 


Earlier today, me and Manny were horsing around in 
the basement. T found a tiny black ball of thread 
on the carpet, and T told Manny it was a spider. 


Then T held it over him pretending like T was 
going to make him eat it. 


= 





Right when T was about to let Manny 9°, he 
slapped my hand and made me drop the thread. 
And guess what? That fool swallowed it. 


Well, Manny completely lost his mind. He ran 
upstairs to where Mom was, and T knew T was 
in big mi 


fl 238 


Manny told Mom T made him eat a spider. J 
told ‘a there was no spider, and that it was 
just a tiny ball of thread. 


SNIFF 
$ 





Mom brought Manny over to the kitchen table. 
Then she put a seed, a raisin, and a grape on a 
plate and told Manny to point to the thing 
that was the closest in size to the piece of 


thread he swallowed. 


134 


Manny took a while to look over the things on 
the plate. 





Then he walked over to the refrigerator and 
pulled out an orange. 





So that's why T got sent to bed at 7:00 and 
Tm not downstairs watching the New Year's 
Eve special on TV. 


And that's also why my only New Year's 
resolution is to never play with Manny again. 


JANUARY 
We nesga 
T found a way +o have some fun with the Big Wheel 
Rowley got me for Christmas. T came up with this 
game where one gy rides down the hill and the 
other gry tries to knock him off with a football. 


Rowley was the first one down the hill, and T 


was the thrower. 





THs a lot harder +o cm moving target than T 
thought. Plus, T didnt get a lot of practice. T+ 
took Rowley like ten minutes to walk the Big Wheel 
back up the hill after every trip down. 


136 


Rowley kept asking to switch places and have me 
be the one who rides the Big Wheel, but Tim no 
fool. That thing was hitting thirty-five miles an 
hour, and it didn't have any brakes. 





Anyway, T never did knock Rowley off the Big 
Wheel today. But I guess T have something to 


work at over the rest of Christmas Vacation. 


ursda 
T was heading up to Rowley’s today to play our 
Big Wheel game again, but Mom said T had to 
finish my Christmas thank-yous before T went 
out anywhere. 


J thought T could just crank out my thank-you 
cards in a half hour, but when it came to actually 
writing them, my mind went blank. 


63 


°° 


Let me tell you, it’s not easy writing thank-you 
notes for stuff you didnt want in the first place. 


T started with the nonclothes items, because T 
thought theyd be easiest. But after two or 
three cards, T realized T was practically writing 
the same thing every time. 


So Í wrote vp a general form on the computer 
with blanks for the things that needed to change. 
Writing the cards from there was a breeze. 


we 


138 


Dear Aunt Lydia, 


Thank you so much for the awesome encyclopedia ! 
How did you know I wanted that for Christmas? 


I love the way the encyclopedia looksonmy shelf ! 


All my friends will be so jealous that I have my very own 
encyclopedia . 


Thank you for making this the best Christmas ever! 


Sincerely, Greg 





My system worked out pretty well for the first 
couple of gifts, but after that, not so much. 
Dear Aunt Loretta, 


Thank you so much for the awesome pants 
How did you know I wanted that for Christmas? 


I love the way the pants looks on my legs ! 


All my friends will be so jealous that I have my very own 
parts 


Thank you for making this the best Christmas ever! 


Sincerely, Greg 





139 


i ha knocked Rowley off the Big Wheel today, 
but i+ didnt happen 7 way T expected. T was 

ing to hit him in the shoulder, but T missed, 
and the football went under the front tire. 





Rowley tried to break his fall by sticking out his 
arms, but he landed pre hard on his left 
hand. T figured hed Jest shake it off and get 
right back on the bike, but he didnt. 


T tried to cheer him vp, but all the jokes that 


usvally crack him up werent working. 


140 


So LT knew he must be hurt pretty bad. 





HEY, LOOK AT ME! 
IM ! 


Christmas Vacation iS over, and now were back 
at school. And you remember Rowley's Big Wheel 
accident? Well, he broke his hand, and now he has 
+o wear a cast. And tod y everyone was crowding 
around him like he was a hero or something. 


D GE 
so “a oF ah 


wth 


T tried +o cash in on some of Rowley's new 


popularity, but i+ totally backfired. 


En 


At lunch a bunch of girls invited Rowley over to 
their table so they could FEED him. 





What really ticks me off about that is that 
Rowley is right-handed, and it's his LEFT hand 
that's broken. So he can feed himself just fine. 





142 


vesga' 
T realized Rowley’s injury thing is a pretty 
good racket, so I decided it was time for me to 
have an injury of my own. 


T took some gauze from home, and Í wrapped 
up my hand to make it look like it was hurt. 





T couldnt figure out why the girls werent 
swarming me like they swarmed Rowley, but then 
T realized what the problem was. 


See, the cast is a great gimmick because everyone 


wants to sign their name on it. But its not exactly 
easy to sign gauze with a pen. 


143 


So T came up with a solution that T thought 
was just as good. 







WOULD YOU LIKE TO 
BE THE FIRST ONE 

TO SIGN MY 

SYMPATHY SHEET? 


Fà 


That idea was a total bust, +oo. My bandage did 
end up attracting attention from a — of 
people, but believe me, they were hot the type 
of people T was going for. 








Monda 

Last week we started the third quarter at 
school, so now T. have a whole bunch of new 
classes. One of the classes T signed vp for is 
something called Independent Study. 


T WANTED +o sign up for Home Economics 2, 
because T was pretty good at Home Ec 1. 


But being good at sewing does not exactly buy 
you popularity points at school. 





Anyway, this Tndependent Study thing is an 
experiment theyre trying out at our school for 
the first time. 


The idea is that the class gets assigned a project, 
and then you have to work on it together with no 
teacher in the room for the whole quarter. 


The catch is that when youre done, everyone 
in your group gets the same grade. LT found ovt 
that Ricky Fisher is in my class, which could be 
a big problem. 


Ricky's big claim to fame is that he'll pick the 
gum off the bottom of a desk and chew it if you 
pay him fifty cents. So T dont really have high 
hopes for our final grade. 


FRA 


Today we got our Independent Study assignment, 
and guess what it is? We have to build a robot. 


At first everybody kind of freaked out, because 
we thought we were going to have to build the 
robot from scratch. 


146 


But Mr. Darnell told us we don't have to build 
an actual robot. We just need to come vp with 
ideas for what our robot might look like and 
what kinds of things it would be able to do. 


Then he left the room, and we were on our own. 
We started brainstorming right away. T wrote 
down a bunch of ideas on the blackboard. 


do my homework $ 
do +he dishes 

7 break- 
MAKE TY DS: 


brush ™y teeth 





Everybody was pretty impressed with my ideas, 
but it was easy to come vp with them. All T 
did was write down all the things T hate 
doing myself. 


But a couple of the girls got up to the front of 
the room, and they had some ideas of their own. 
They erased my list and drew up their own plan. 


147 


They wanted to invent a robot that would give 
you dating advice and have ten types of lip gloss 
on its fingertips. 





All us gys thought this was the stupidest idea 
we ever heard. So we ended up splitting into two 
groups, girls and boys. The boys went to the 
other side of the room while the girls stood 
around talking. 


Now that we had all the serious workers in one 
place, we got to work. Someone had the idea 
that you can say your name to the robot and it 
can say it back +o yov. 












Hi BOB it is 
VERY Mice to 
meet vous BOB. 





148 


But then someone else pointed out that you 
shouldn't be able to use bad words for your 
name, because the robot shouldn't be able to 
curse. So we decided we should come up with a 
list of all the bad words the robot shouldn't be 
able +o say. 


We came vp with all the regular bad words, but 
then Ricky Fisher came up with twenty more the 


rest of us had never even heard before. 





So Ricky ended up being one of the most valuable 
contributors on this project. 


Right before the bell rang, Mr. Darnell came 
back in the room to check on our progress. He 
picked up the piece of paper we were writing on 


and read it over. 


144 


To make a long story short, Independent Study 
is canceled for the rest of the year. 





Well, at least it is for us boys. So if the robots 
in the future are going around with che lip 
gloss for fingers, at least now you know how it 
all got started. 


ursda 
Th school today they had a general assembly and 
showed the movie "Lts Great to Be Me,” which 
they show us every year. 


The movie is all about how you should be happy 
with who you are and hot change anything 
about yourself, 


150 


To be honest with you. T think that's a really 
dumb message to be telling kids, especially the 
ones at my school. 





Later on, they made an announcement that 
there are some openings on the Safety Patrols, 
and that got me thinking. 


Tf someone picks on a Safety Patrol, it can get 
them suspended. The way E figure it, 1 can use 
any extra protection ac can get. 


Plus, T realized +hat maybe being in a position 
of authority could be good for me. 






CAN WE PLEASE 
CROSS THE 
STREET NOW? 





T went down +o Mr. Winsky’s office and Signed 
myself vp, and got Rowley to sign vp, too. 
T thot Mr. Winsky would make us do a 
bunch of chin-ups or Jumping jacks or Something 
to prove we were up for the job, but he Jest 
handed us our belts and badges on the Spot. 





Mr. Winsky said the openings were for a special 
assignment. Our school is right next to the 
elementary school, and theyve got a half-day 
kindergarten there. 


He wants us to walk the morning session kids home 
in the middle of the day. T realized that meant 
we would miss twenty minutes of Pre-Algebra. 
Rowley must have figured that out, too, because 
he started to speak up. But T gave him a wicked 
pinch underneath the desk before he could finish 


his sentence. 





T couldnt believe my luck. T was getting instant bully 
protection and a free pass from half of Pre-Algebra, 
and I didnt even have to lift a finger. 


vesda 
Today was our first day as Safety Patrols. Me and 
Rowley dont technically have stations like all the 
other Patrols, so that means we dont have to stand 
out in the freezing cold for an hour before school. 


But that didn't stop us from coming to the 
cafeteria for the free hot chocolate they hand 
out to the other Patrols before homeroom. 


Another great perk is that you get +o show up 
ten minutes late for first period. 








Im telling you, Te got it made with this 
Safety Patrol thing. 


At 12:15, me and Rowley lef+ school and walked 
the kindergartners home. The whole trip ate up 
forty-five minutes, and there were only twenty 
minutes of Pre-Algebra left when we got back. 


Walking the kids home was no sweat. But one of 
the kindergartners started to smell a litte funny, 
and T think maybe he had an accident in his pants. 


He tried to let me know about it, but I just 
stared straight ahead and kept walking. Til 
take these kids home, but believe me, TL didnt 


sign up for any diaper duty. 





155 


FEBRUARY 
Wednesda: 
Teday it snowed for the first time this winter, 
and school was canceled. We were supposed to 
have a test in Pre-Algebra, and Tve kind of 
slacked off ever since T became a Safety Patrol. 
So T was psyched. 





T called Rowley and told him +o come over. Me and 
him have been talking about building the world's 
biggest snowman for the past couple of years now. 


And when 1 say the world's biggest showman, 
Tim not kidding. Our goal is to get into the 
"Guinness Book of World Records.” 


156 





But every time weve gotten serious about going 
for the record, all the snow has melted, and 
weve missed our window of opportunity. So this 
year, T wanted to get started right away. 


When Rowley came over, we started rolling the 
first snowball to make the base. T figured the 
base was going to have to be at least eight feet 
tall on its own if we wanted to have a shot at 
breaking the record. But the snowball got real 
heavy, and we had to take a bunch of breaks in 


between rolls so we could catch our breath. 





During one of our breaks, Mom came outside to go 
+o the grocery store, but our snowball was blocking 
her car in. So we got a lite free labor out of her. 





i 
After our break, me and Rowley pushed that 
snowball until we couldnt push it any farther. 
But when we looked behind us, we saw the mess 
we had made. 


158 


The snowball had gotten so heavy that i+ tore 
up all the sod Dad had just laid down this fall. 


T was hoping it would snow a few more inches 
and cover up our tracks, but just like that, it 
stopped snowing. 





Our plan +o build the world’s biggest snowman 
was starting to fall apart. So T came up with a 
better idea for our snowball. 


Every time it snows, the kids from Whirley 
Street use our hill for sledding, even though this 
isnt their neighborhood. 


159 


So tomorrow morning, when the Whirley Street 
kids come marching up our hill, me and Rowley are 
going to teach those guys a lesson. 





— 
When T woke up this morning, the snow was 


already starting to melt. So T told Rowley to 
hurry up and get down to my house. 


While T was waiting for Rowley +o show up, T 
watched Manny trying to build a snowman out of 
the piddly crumbs of snow that were left over 
from our snowball. 


160 


T+ was actually kind of pathetic. 





T really couldnt help doing what T did next. 
Unfortunately for me, right at that moment, 
Dad was at the front window. 





Dad was ALREADY mad at me for tearing up 
the sod, so T knew T was in for it. T heard the 
garage door open and I saw Dad coming outside. 
He marched right out carrying a show shovel, and T 
thought I was going to have to make a run for it, 





But Dad was heading for my snowball, not me. 
And in less than a minute, he reduced all our 


hard work to nothing. * 





Rowley came a few mirwtes later. T thought he 
might actually get a kick out of what happened. 





But T guess he had his heart set on rolling 
that snowball down the hill, and he was reall 
mad. But get this: Rowley was mad at ME for 
what DAD did. 


T told Rowley he was being a big baby, and we 
got in a shoving match. Right when it looked like 
we were going to get in an all-out fight, we got 
ambushed from the street. 





T+ was a hit-and-run by the Whirley Street kids. 





And if Mrs. Levine, my English teacher, was 
there, Lm sure she would have said the whole 


situation was “ironic.” 


Wednesda 

Today at school they announced theres an opening 
for the cartoonist job in the school paper. There's 
only one comic slot, and up until now this kid named 
Bryan Little has been hogging it all to himself. 


164 


Bryan has this comic called “Wacky Dawg,” and 
when it started off, it was actually pretty funny. 


But lately, Bryan's been using his strip to handle 
y: By g his strip 

his — business. T guess that's why they 

gave im the axe. 


Wacky Dawg Bryan Little 


Hey, Actually, Susan Lim, if you are reading this, 
Wacky I have Bryan is very sorry he kissed your 
Dawg, say Something best friend Rachel behind the 
somethin’ Serious on || lockers. He hopes you can find it in 
your heart to forgive him. 


FUNNY) my mind 
) today. | IND 


P.S. Barry Palmer, 

you still owe Bryan 

- five dollars, you 
UM! 





As soon as T heard the news, T knew T had to 
try out. "Wacky Dawg" made Bryan Little a 
celebrity at our school, and T wanted to get in 
on some of that kind of fame. 


T had a taste of what it's like to be famous at 
my school when T won honorable mention in this 
antismoking contest they had. 


165 


All T did was trace a picture from one of 
Rodrick’s heavy metal magazines, but luckily, no 
one ever fi out. 


DON'T SMOKE OR 
You'LL LOOK LIKE ME. 
— 





The kid who won first place is named Chris 
Carney. And what kind of ticks me off is that 
Chris smokes at least a pack of cigarettes a day. 





166 


ursa: 
Me and Rowley decided to team up and do a 
cartoon — So after school today he came 
over to my house, and we got +o work. 





We banged out a bunch of characters real 
quick y but that turned out to be the eas 
part. When we tried to think up some jokes, 
we kind of hit a wall. 


a. finally came up with a good solution. 


T made up a cartoon where the punch line of 
every strip is “Zoo-Wee Mama!” 


That way we wouldnt get bogged down with having 


+o write actual jokes, and we could concentrate on 
the pictures. 


167 


For the first couple of strips, T did the writing 
and drew the characters, and Rowley drew the 
boxes around the pictures. 


Step on a crack, 


break your 


momma's back ! 













Hey, Timmy, your 
— slipped ona N 
banana Peel, an sie 

She is dead. 





Rowley started complaining that he didnt have 
enough to do, so T let him write a few of the strips. 


168 


But +o be hones+ with yous there was a pre 
obvious drop in quality once Rowley started doing 
the writing. 






I have been 
waiting +hree 
hours to get 





Tm sorry, Sir, 
we are Jail 
sold out. 





Eventually T got kind of sick of the “Zoo-Wee 
Mama” idea and T prety much let Rowley take 


over the whole operation. 


169 


And believe i+ or not, Rowley’s drawing skills 
are worse than his writing skills. 


A+ least it's 


"seid puddle) 








Ay- ay-ay! 
T+ is an aci 
puddle! 






T +old Rowley maybe we should come up with 
some new ideas, but he jest wanted to keep 
writing "“Zoo-Wee Mamas.” Then he packed up 
his comics and went home, which was fine by me. 
T dont really want to be partnered up with a 
kid who doesn't draw noses, anyway. 


After Rowley left yesterday, T really got to work 
on some comics. T came up with this — called 
Creighton the Cretin, and I got on a roll. 


CREIGHTON THE CRETIN by Greg Heffley 








171 


LT mustve banged out twenty strips, and T 
didn't even break a sweat. 


OOPS. I HAVE BEEN TRYING 
TO OPEN IT ALL DAY. 





The great thing about these “Creighton the Cretin” 
comics is that with all the idiots running around my 
school, T will NEVER run out of new material. 


When T got to school today, T +ook my comics 
to Mr. Iras office. He's the teacher who runs 
the school newspaper. 


But when TL went to tum my strips in, T saw 
that there was a pile of comics from other kids 
who were trying out for the job. 


Most of them were pretty bad, so 1 wasn't too 
worried about the competition. 


Girls 
ROLE! 


by tabitha 
cutter and 
lisa russel 










don't walk near 
our lunch table, 





yeah, youre 
not even 















ha ha ha ha ha 
— ha he ha! 





’ na 
i itis vad 





One of the comics was called “Dumb Teachers,” 
and it was written by this kid named Bill Tritt. 


Bill is always in detention, so TL guess he has a 
bone to pick with just about every teacher in the 
school, including Mr. Tra. 


174 


So Lm not too worried about the chances of 
Bill's comic getting in, either. 





There were actually one or two decent comics in 
the bin. But T slipped them under a pile of 
paperwork on Mr. Tra’s desk. 


Hopefully, those ones wont turn vp until Lim 
in high school. 


sup 


Today J during morning announcements, T got 
the news I was hoping for. 


an 





The paper came out today at lunch time, and 
everyone was reading it. 


T really wanted +o pick up a copy to see m 
name in print, but T decided +o just play it cool 
for a while instead. 





176 


T sat at the end of the lunch table so there 
would be plenty of room for me to start sighing 
autographs for my new fans. But nobody was coming 
over to tell me how great comic was, and T 


started +o get the feeling something was wrong. 


$ grabbed a paper and went into the bathroom 
+o check it ovt. And when T saw my comic, É 
practically had a heart attack. 





Mr. Tra told me he had made some "minor 
edits” to comic. T thought he just meant he 
fixed spelling mistakes and stuff like that, but 
he totally butchered it. 


The comic he ruined was one of my favorite ones, 
too. Tn the original, Creighton J Cretin is taking 
a math test, and he accidentally eats it. And then 
the teacher yells at him for being such a moron. 


the time Mr. Tra was done with it, you 
practically couldnt recognize it as the same strip. 


Creighton the Curious Student by Gregory Heffley 


Teacher, if x + 43 = 89, Creighton, x would be 46! 
then what would x be? 


Thanks. Kids, if you want to leam 
more about math, be sure to visit 
Mr. Humphrey during his office 

<z hours. Or visit the library and 
check out the newly expanded 
Math and Science section! 





So Im pretty sure T wont be signing autographs 


anytime soon. 





178 


MARCH 


— 
Me and wley were eh joying our hot chocolate 


in the cafeteria with the rest of the Patrols 
today, and there was an announcement oh the 


loudspeaker. 





JRA 


Rowley went down to Mr. Winsky’ s office, and 
when Bak came back fifteen * later, he 
looked pretty shaken vp. 


Apparently Mr. Winsk got a call from a patent 
who said they witnessed Rowley ` ‘terrorizing 
the kindergartners when he was supposed +o be 
walking them home from school. And Mr. Winsky 
was really mad about it. 


179 


Rowley said Mr. Winsky yelled at him for about 


ten minutes and said his actions “disrespected 


the badge.” 






— a 
You know, T think T might just know what this 
is all about. Last week, Rowley had +o take a 


quiz during fourth period, so Í walked the 
kindergartners home on my own. 


T+ had rained that morning, and there were a 
lot of worms on the sidewalk. So T decided to 
have some fun with the kids. 





180 


But some neighborhood lady saw what T was 
doing, and she yelled at me from her front porch. 


T+ was Mrs. Irvine, who is friends with Rowley’s 
mom. She must have thought T was Rowley, 
because T was borrowing his coat. And T wasnt 
about +o correct her, either. 





T forgot about the whole incident until today. 


Anyway, Mr. Winsky told Rowley he's going to 
have to apologize to the kindergartners +omorrow 
morning, and that he's suspended from Patrols 


for a week. 


181 


T knew T should probably jest tell Mr. Winsky it 
was me who chased the kids with the worms. But 
T wasnt ready to set the record straight just 
yet. T knew if T confessed, Td lose my hot 
chocolate privileges. And that right there was 
enough +o make me keep quiet for the time being. 


Åt dinner tonight, Mom could +ell something 
was bothering me, So she came vp +o my room 
afterward +o talk. 


T told her I was in a tough situation, and T 
didnt know what to do. 


J got to give Mom credit for how she handled 
it. She didnt try to p and get all the details. 
All she said was * T hold ii +o do the 
“right thing,” because it's our hee that make 


us who we are. 





182 


L figure that's pretty decent advice. But Im still 
not 100% sure what Im going to do tomorrow. 


ursda 
Well, T was up all night tossing and turning 
over this Rowley situation, but T finally made 
vp my mind. T decided the right thing to do 
was to just let Rowley take one for the team 
this time around. 


“4 





On the way home from school, I came clean with 
Rowley — told him the whole truth about what 
happened j and how it was me who chased the 
kids with the worms. 


183 


Then T told him there were lessons we could 
both learn from this. T told him I learned to be 
more careful about what I do in front of Mrs. 
Trvine's house, and that he learned a valuable 
lesson, too, which is this: Be careful about who 
you lend your coat to. 





To be honest with you, my message didn't seem 
to be getting through to Rowley. 


We were supposed to hang out after school 
today, but he said he was Just going to go home 
and take a nap. 


T couldnt really blame him. Because if T didnt 
have my hot chocolate this morning, T wouldnt 
have had much energy, either. 


184 


When T got home, Mom was waiting for me at 
the front door. 





Mom +ook me out to get some ice cream as a special 
treat. And what this whole episode has taught me 
is that every once in a while, its not such a bad 

idea to listen to your mother. 





185 


There was another announcement on the loudspeaker 
today, and to be honest with yous T kind of 


figured this one was coming. 





SIPPPP... 


T knew it was just a matter of time before I 
got busted for what happened last week. 


When T got to Mr. Winsky’s office, he was 
rely mad. Mr. Winsky ik. me that an 
anonymous source’ hd informed him that T 
was the real culprit in the worm-chasing incident. 


Then he told me I was relieved of Safety 
Patrol duties “effective immediately. 


186 


Well, it doesnt take a detective to figure out 
that the anonymous source was Rowley. 


T cant believe Rowley went and backstabbed 
me like that. While ss sitting there getting 
chewed out by Mr. Winsky, T was thinking, T 
need to remember to give my friend a lecture 


about loyalty. 





Later on today, Rowley get reinstated as a Patrol. 
And get this: He actually got a PROMOTION. 
Mr. Winsky said Rowley had “exhibited dignity 


under false suspicion." 





187 


E thought about really letting Rowley have it 
for ratting me out like that, but then I 
realized something. 


Tn June, all the officers in the Safety Patrols 
ge on a trip to Six Flags, and they get to take 
along one friend. T need to make sure Rowley 
knows Im his gy- 





a 

Like said before, the worst part of getting 
kicked of f Safety Patrols is losing your hot 
chocolate privileges. 


Every morning, $ ge +o the back door of the 
cafeteria so Rowley can hook me up: 


188 


But either my friend has gone deaf or he's too 
busy kissing the other officers’ butts to notice me 
at the window. 





Tn fact, now that T think of it, Rowley has been 
TOTALLY giving me the cold shoulder lately. And 
that's really lame, because if T recall correctly, 
HE’ S the one that sold ME ovt. 


Even though Rowley has been a total jerk lately, 
T tried to break the ice with him today, anyway. 
But even THAT didn't seem to work. 


fee; P\FF a8 
° — e ⸗ — 





189 





APRIL 
riga 
Ever since the worm incident, Rowley has been 
hanging out with Collin Lee every day after school. 
What really stinks is that Collin is supposed to 
be MY backup friend. 


a gys are acting totally ridiculous. Today, 
and Collin were wearing these matching 
Z -shrts, and it made me just about want to vomit. 


SS SS 


A ) H } 


After dinner tonight, T saw Rowley and Collin 
walking up the hill together, chumming it up. 





190 


Collin had his overnight bag, so LT knew the 


were going to do a sleepover at Rowley’s. 


And T thovaht, Well, two can play at THAT 
3 ry 

game. The best way to get back at Rowley was 

to get a new best friend of my own. But 

unfortunately, the only person who came to mind 

right at that moment was Fregley. 


T went up to Fregley’s with m overnight bag so 
Rowley could see T had other fond options, too. 


When T got there, Fregley was in his front 
yard stabbing a kite with a stick. That's when 
T started to think maybe this wasnt the best 
idea after all. 





But Rowley was in his front yard, and he was 
watching me. So Í knew there was no tuming back. 


T invited myself into Fregley’s house. His mom said 
she was excited to see Fregley with a “playmate,” 
which was a term TL was not too enthusiastic about. 





Me and Fregley went upstairs to his room. 
Fregley tried +o get me to play Twister with 
him, so T made sure x Stayed ten feet away 


from him at all times. 


T decided that I should just pull the plug on 
this stupid idea and go home. But every time T 
looked out the window, Rowley and Collin were 
still in Rowley’s front yard. 


192 


T didnt want to leave until those gys went back 
inside. But things started +o get out of hand with 
Fregley pretty quckly. When T was looking out the 
window, Fregley broke into my backpack and ate the 
whole bag of Jelly beans I had in there. 


Fregley’s one of these kids whos not supposed 
to eat any sugar, so two minutes later, he was 


bouncing off the walls. 






Ds =z 
Fregle started acting like a total maniac, and 
he chased me all around his upstairs. 


I kept thinking he was going +o come down off 
of his Sugar high, but he didn't. Eventually, T 
locked myself in his bathroom to wait him out. 


173 


Around 11:30, it got quiet out in the hallway. 
That's when Fregley slipped a piece of paper 
under the door. 





ga picked it up and read it. 













Dear Gregory, 
Lim very sorry £ 
chased you with a 
booger on my Finger. 
Here, T put it 4 
is paper so YO 
eas wale 


— 


114 


That's the last thing TL remember before $ 
blacked ovt. 


T came to my senses few hours later. After T 
woke vp, T cracked the door open, and Í heard 


snoring coming from Fregley’s room. So T decided 
to make a run for it. 


Mom and Dad were not happy with me for getting 
them out of bed at 2:00 in the morning. But by 
that point, T could really care less. 





Monda 

Well, me and Rowley have officially been ex-friends 
for about a month now, and to be honest with 
you Tm better off without him. 


Tm glad T can just do whatever T want without 
having to worry about carrying all that dead 
weight around. 


Lately The been hanging out in Rodrick’s room 
after school and going through his stuff. The other 
day, T found one of his middle school yearbooks. 





Rodrick wrote on everybody's picture in his 
earbook, so you can tell how he felt about all 
the kids in his grade. 


196 





Every once in a while, 1 see Rodrick’s old classmates 
around town. And T have to remember to thank 
Rodrick for making church a lot more interesting. 






But the page in Rodrick’s yearbook that's 
really interesting is the Class Favorites page. 


That's where the pet pictures of the kids who 
get voted Most * and Most Talented and 
all that. 


197 


Rodrick wrote on his Class Favorites page, too. 


MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED 





Bill Watson Kathy Nguyen 


You know, this Class Favorites thing has really 
get my gears turning. 


Tf you can get yourself voted onto the Class 
Favorites page, youre paper | an immortal. 
Even if you don't live up to what you got 
picked for, it doesnt really matter, because it's 
on permanent record. 


People still treat Bill Watson like he's something 


special, even though he ended vp dropping ovt of 
high school. 


198 


We still run into him at the Food Barn every 


once in a while. 





So here's what Lm thinking? This school year 
has been kind of a bust, but if T can get voted 
as a Class Favorite, T'll go out on a high note. 


Tre been trying to think of a category T have 
a shot at. Most Popular and Most Athletic are 
definitely out, so Lm going to have to find 
something that's a little bit more in reach. 


At first T thought maybe TL should wear really 
nice clothes for the rest of the year so Í can 
get Best Dressed. 


199 


But that would mean I would have to get my 
picture taken with Jenna Stewart, and she 
dresses like a Pilgrim. 





Wednesday 
Last night T was lying in bed, and it hit me: T 
should go for Class Clown. 


T+s not like Lm known for being real funny at 
school or anything, but if T can pull off one big 
prank right before voting, that could do i+. 





MAY 


— 
Today was ing to figure out how T was 


going to sneak a thumbtack onto Mr. Worths 
chair in History when he said something that 
made me rethink my plan. 


Mr. Worth told us he has a dentists appointment 
tomorrow, So were going to have a substitute. 
Subs are like comic gold. You can say jest about 
anything you want, and you cant get in trouble. 





Friday 

T walked into my History class today, read 

to execute m plan. But when T got to the 

door, guess who the substitute teacher was? 
’ 


Ha 


Of all the people in the world to be our sub 
today, it was Mom. T thought Moms days of 
getting involved at my school were over. 












She used to be one of those parents who came 
in to help out in the classroom. But that all 
changed after Mom volunteered to be a 
chaperone for our field trip to the zoo when 
T was in third grade. 


Mom had prepared all sorts of material to help us 
kids appreciate the different exhibits, but all 
anyone wanted to do was watch the animals ge 
+o the bathroom. 





Anyway, Mom totally foiled my plan to win Class 
Clown. I'm just lucky theres not a categor 
called Biggest Mamas Boy, because after today, 
Td win that one in a landslide. 





203 


Wednesday 

The school paper came out again today. T quit 
my job as school cartoonist after "Creighton the 
Curious Student” came out, and T didnt really 
care who they picked to replace me. 


But everyone was laughing at the comics page at 
lunch, so T picked up a copy to see what was so 
funny. And when T opened it up, T couldnt 

believe my eyes. 






vi 
q 
fom 
OF Bae. be 
CD cen % Woe 


T+ was “Zoo-Wee Mama.” And of course Mr. Tra 
didn+ change a single WORD of Rowley’s strip. 


Zoo-Wee Mama by Rowley Jefferson 


lady T ape 

one of those 

with lon hei? 
so no thanks 


+o that dote. 





So now Rowley’s getting all the fame that was 
supposed to be mine. 





Even the teachers are kissing Rowley's butt. T 
almost lost my lunch when Mr. Wor dropped his 
chalk in History class— 





205 


Monga 

This “Zoo-Wee Mama” thing has really got me 
worked vp- Rowley is getting all the credit for 4 
comic that we came up with together. I figured 
the least he could do was put my hame onh the 
strip as the co-creator. 


So T went up to Rowley after school and told 
him that's what he was gonna have to do. But 
Rowley said “Zoo-Wee Mama” was all HIS idea 
and that T didnt have anything +o do with it. 


T guess we mustve been talking pretty loud, 
because the next thing you knew, we attracted 
a crowd. 





The kids at my school are ALWAYS itching to 
see a fight. Me and Rowley tried to walk away, 
but those grys werent going to let us ge until 

they saw us throw some punches. 


Te never been in a real fight before, so T didnt 
know how T was supposed +o stand or hold m 
fists or anything. And you could tell Rowley 
didn't know what he was doing either, because he 
just started prancing around like a leprechaun. 





T was pretty sure T could take Rowley ina 
fight, but the thing that made me nervous was 
the fact that Rowley takes karate. T dont know 
what kind of hocus-pocus they teach in Rowley’s 
karate classes, but the last thing T needed was 
for him +o lay me out right there on the blacktop. 


207 


Before me or Rowley made a move, there was a 
screeching sound in the school parking lot. A 
bunch of teenagers had stopped their pickup 
truck, and they started piling out. 


T was just happy that everyones attention was 
on the teenagers instead of me and Rowley. But 
all the other kids took off when the teenagers 
started heading our way. 





And then T realized that these teenagers 
looked awfully familiar. 


That's when it hit me. These were the same 
guys who chased me and Rowley around on 
Halloween night, and they ti 


finally caught up 
with us. 


208 


But before we could make a run for it, we had our 
arms pinned behind our backs. 


Those avys wanted to teach us a lesson for 
taunting them on Halloween night, and the 
started arguing over what they should do with us. 





But to be honest with ou, Y, was more concerned 
about something else. The Cheese was only a few 
feet from where we were standing on the Dakio, 
and it was looking nastier than ever. 





209 


The big teenager must have caught my eye; 
because the next thing T knew, he was looking 
at the Cheese, too. And T guess that gave him 
the idea he was looking for. 


Rowley got singled out first. The big kid grabbed 
Rowley and dragged him over to the Cheese. 


Now, I dont want +o say exactly what happened 
next. Because if Rowley ever tries to run for 
President and someone finds out what these ovys 
made him do, he wont have a chance. 


So T'll put it to you this way? They made Rowley 
_ __ the Cheese. 





T knew they were gonna make me do tt, too. 1 
started +o panic, because $ knew 4. wasn + going 
+o be able +o fight my way out of this situation. 


So T did some fast talking instead. 





I1 WOULD, BUT 
TM ALLERGIC 
TO DAIRY! 


And believe it or not, it actually worked. 


— — — 





211 


T guess the teenagers were satisfied they had 
made their point, because after they made 
Rowley finish off the rest of the Cheese, they 
let us go. They got back in their truck and 
took off down the road. 


Me and Rowley walked home together. But neither 
one of us really said anything on the way back. 


T thought about mentioning to Rowley that 
maybe he could have pulled out a couple of his 
karate moves back there, but something told me 
+o hold off on that thought for right now. 


SHUDDER 
SHUDDER 





á 
At school today, the teachers let us outside 
after lunch. 


T+ took about five seconds for someone to 
realize the Cheese was missing from its spot on 


the blacktop. 





Everybody crowded around to look at where the 
Cheese used +o be. Nobody could believe it was 
actually gone. 


People started coming up with these crazy theories 
about what happened +o it. Somebody said that 
maybe the Cheese grew legs and walked away. 


T+ took all my self-control to keep my mouth 
shut. And if owley wash + standing right 
there, T honestly dont know if T could have 
kept quiet. 





A couple of the goys who were arguing over what 
happened +o the Cheese were the same ones who 
were egging me and Rowley on yesterday afternoon. 
So T knew it wasnt going to be long before 
someone put two and two together and figured out 
that we must have had something +o do with it. 


Rowley was starting to panic, and T dont 
blame him, either. Lf the truth ever came out 
about how the Cheese disappeared, Rowley would 
be finished. Hed have to move out of the state, 
and maybe even the country. 


214 


That's when T decided to speak up. 


TL told everyone that I knew what happened to 
the Cheese. T said I was sick of it being on the 
blacktop, and T just decided +o get rid of it once 
and for all. 


For a second there, everyone just froze. I 
thought people were going to start thanking me 
for what IL did, but boy, was I wrong. 


T really wish T had worded my story a little 
differently. Because if T threw away the Cheese, 
guess what that meant? T+ meant that I have 
the Cheese Touch. 





JUNE 
rida 
Well, if Rowley appreciated what T did for him 
last week, he hasnt said it. But weve started 
hanging out after school again, So T guess that 


means me and him are back to normal. 


"Et Gann 
—— 





T can honestly say that so far, having the 
Cheese Touch hasnt been all that bad. 


T+ got me out of doing the Square Dance unit 


in Phys Ed, because no one would partner up 
with me. And Live had the whole lunch table to 
myself every day. 


Today was the last day of school, and they 
handed out yearbooks after eighth period. 


216 


1 flipped +o the Class Favorites page, and 
here's the picture that was waiting for me. 


CLASS CLOWN 





Rowley Jefferson 


AIl T can say is, if anyone wants 4 free yearbook, 
they can dig one out of the trash can in the 
back of the cafeteria. 


You know, Rowley can have Class Clown for all T 
care. But if he ever gets too big for his britches, 


Tl just remind him that he was the gy who ate 
the 


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
There are many people who helped bring this book to life, 
but four individuals deserve special thanks: 


Abrams editor Charlie Kochman, whose advocacy for Diary 
of a Wimpy Kid has been beyond what | could have hoped 
for. Any writer would be lucky to have Charlie as an editor. 


Jess Brallier, who understands the power and potential of 
online publishing, and helped Greg Heffley reach the masses 
for the first time. Thanks especially for your friendship and 
mentorship. 


Patrick, who was instrumental in helping me improve this 
book, and who wasn't afraid to tell me when a joke stunk. 


My wife, Julie, without whose incredible support this book 
would not have become a reality. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 
Jeff Kinney is the creator of Poptropica.com. He spent his 
childhood in the Washington, D.C., area and moved to New 
England in 1995. Jeff lives in southern Massachusetts with his 
wife, Julie, and their two sons, Will and Grant. 


L'il be famous one day, but for now I m stuck 
in middle school with a bunch of morons. 


Just don't expect a to be all “D ear Dia y" 
this and “Dear Diary” that. 


US pog Cou sapo LE fra 
An imprint of Harry N. Abrama, lac Owi m odos gue 


tS Wost iSi Sireet 279: 
T A A] 
anaa ° 





